Indie Hackers is a podcast from Courtland from indiehackers.com. Courtland: I'm doing an episode on cryptocurrencies, specifically nfts. "I am convinced that there's a possibility that nfts could be the future of the web" Nothing contained in this episode is financial advice. Do not take what we're saying as advice to go out and buy a bunch of crypto. This episode is for entertainment purposes only. Enjoy. If I were to tell anyone how to make money like level one, buy the coins. Do some research, figure out the ones you want to buy. If you just want a high level, buy bitcoin, ethereum, buy like $100 a week, whatever you can afford. Get a Coinbase account, the proper regular Coinbase account. You want to do it with Robinhood, do it. They give you the features to do that too. That's level one. Level two is just a very hard gate, but level two is decentralized finance, which means you buy the token. "I have a couple friends now in the space one of them is 23 years old. He's a systems engineer in Utah, and he made half a million dollars this year trading nfts" "You can't deny this. This is what's happening, right? And yes, there's Ponzi to it" "It is a giant Ponzi scheme, just like money. And if you don't understand that money's like that, I'm sorry" "We're just able to do this in a way that's like, all over the place and everywhere, right? And, like, it's everywhere around you" Mubs founder says he was skeptical about nfts at first. He says nfts lie on the bedrock of a lot more complex tokens and crypto and blockchains. "It can be hard to understand whether or not these are just a passing fad or they're worth investing your time and money into" Web three is the evolution of how we host and we do infrastructure kind of online. Now it's just kind of hosted in the cloud, but it's not even a cloud that we own or rent. And the cloud just runs sort of our applications and stuff like that. So it's the next evolution, I think. We have been able to put our websites and our data and host all the stuff we create online in the cloud, so to speak. But really it's just like Amazon servers or Google servers or some centralized servers that some big company owns somewhere. If they don't like porn and they want to be the moral police and you are a porn star with your porn website or something, they can just delete you. No one computer has any control over all of it. Everybody's doing a lot of computationally expensive work to keep each other in sync. "For the first time, we're actually building things in this mystical place called the Internet," he says. The entire thing's a scam. As long as you can understand how to work your way around the scam and exist within the rules of the scam, everybody's happy. And the hard part is just identifying which are the least scammy bits of it. "I saw literal innovation way faster than any startup category I've ever seen," he says. "You just have to accept the fact that sometimes things fail and sometimes people try and scam you" I wouldn't tell anybody today, hey, go invest your time in nfts. I think it's very tough to get into nfts unless you're willing to spend a lot of time. At the end of the day, people get high watching number go up. They get high on it. NFT is a non fungible token. It's essentially digital property. Think about fungible tokens. They exist on the blockchain, which I mentioned earlier. Then they think something's going down. So then they go ape in, as they call it. That's what aping in means. A decentralized ledger is just something that tracks transactions. These transactions and blockchains usually occur in tokens. These tokens are fungible, which means you don't really care about any individual token. A non fungible token is different. In a way, like fungible tokens, like bitcoin and ethereum represent digital currency. They matter. It matters which kids you get back from the daycare center. And so now we have this new situation where we can do more than just store bitcoin and other forms of digital money. Now we can store digital items. "I just thought, this doesn't make any sense. It's stupid," he says. "I kind of missed the boat because he didn't look into it," he adds. "What helped me get over my skepticism is understanding the reality" We're just in the very early days where we're not really sure what digital property should be. No digital property really has ever been that useful. And so we never even talk about digital property. NFTs represent digital property on the blockchain. NFTs enable digital property to have all of these kind of cool things that real world property can have. Now you can own it because it's in your blockchain wallet. "It enables a degree of connectivity that is pretty revolutionary" "It's really hard to understand, like, or even predict where this is gonna go" "What kinds of new apps and new websites are we going to see as a result of this?" I think that's still a long ways away, but maybe not that long. Like, you've seen things like Fortnite and League of Legends and stuff where you can buy skins and power ups and pets that follow you around while you're playing those things. And the big problem with those things is that whatever you buy is locked into that platform. And I think that is where the technology of NFTs, having this hedger that we can put assets onto and this sort of social networking side of things. I think that technology is all there. I think how far away are we from a AAA game enabling that? We're probably a ways away from that. But the indie makers are out there working on this stuff. Will those indies become triple a hated games at some point? Deso and decentralized is now I can make a post, it's now public on the deso blockchain. If anybody wants to access all the things that I've posted, they can because it's public. And it opens up the social media now to kind of lots more things as well. "I think, again, it's more than just nfTs," Heaton says. "There's so many things that if we can track who posted them onto the ledger, you know, which, which key signed it, and we can kind of track that" I was in your room for ten minutes the other day and I had no idea what anybody was talking about. It just sounded, it sounded like I stepped in a teleporter to the future for a minute and it was crazy. There's all this utility and cool stuff in there. NFTs and what we're doing today is a killer use case. You own it. People can right click save it and there's now a torrent like search engine for finding them. You could verify ownership. A lot of people with nfTs think, oh, like, you know, it's all digital. Couldn't somebody just copy what you have? Like, if you have an NFT copy of a piece of art or NFT representation of an email or a college degree, couldn't somebody take a screenshot of that and now they own it too? That's not how it works. NFTs allow you to put items in your wallet on the blockchain and for people to verify who it came from and see that it's actually real. So that's ownership. The second thing is basically something that I think people, they kind of miss, and you guys said it in passing, but they missed this. Des Bryant has created an NFT that gives you access to basketball games, pregame stuff, and more importantly, most importantly, his birthday parties. "The reason I'm into this has nothing to do with anything except sense of belonging," Bryant says. "That tweet is your tweet. If it was built in, if it was backed by the blockchain, I'm not saying that means that the tweet isn't yours today," he says. "You're, like renting it today, right? Twitter owns it. They allow you to come and see it and access it and whatever" "I was like, yeah, but nobody cares. So what, you're renting your tweets, like, who gives a shit?" he said. "It's because it's not about tweets if you don't own it" I think it's gonna be a while, but that's iteration. But whatever the future ownership model is and the fact that you can take this stuff across sites and all that stuff, that's what's up. With me, it's not just tweets. It could be with posts on Facebook and Instagram and all those kind of things. But I think it has to do with who cares? Twitter's NFT allows users to control their content from anywhere in the world. Users can control what they post, when, and how it's viewed. The company is working on a new version of the app that will allow users to share content with friends and family. I can see a path where two, three years from now, companies like Twitter are like, you know what? We're going to give you an NFT for every tweet that you've made. And essentially we create this world full of digital goods and digital property that we can all carry around with us. That, to me, is pretty revolutionary in ways that are hard to even predict or describe. For a large amount of the population, there's certain things that they just don't care about and whether, and it's going to be where, wherever the popular people are posting, that's where they will be. But the local supermarket will always exist. Internet visionaries see a future of telecommuting workers and interactive libraries. They speak of electric town meetings and virtual communities. Commerce and business will shift from offices and malls to networks and modems. A computer expert predicted that e commerce would be dying. He was wrong. Even if you're very savvy, these futuristic predictions that are extremely accurate might look inaccurate at the time. And so I'm curious, what do you guys have as your wildest futuristic predictions for nfts? The ownership of the digital assets in the video game industry is an absolute certainty in my mind. I think that trend is something that will continue a long way. I also think things like sports collectibles and things that, again, it's a trend that's already started. The digital collection thing to me is so interesting because it's like, for whatever reason, I found it unconvincing that it would stay and I wouldn't bet against it. But it seems to me like there's this market of buyers and sellers, and you can make a lot of money if you know your way around. "I have no freaking clue of what's going to happen with there. But it's the thing that you're buying, which is the important bit," he says. "People are still going to be following the NFL next year and the year after that" It still depends on what youre buying. Are people still going to be buying apes next year? I have no freaking clue. But if you're talking about things that people care about, things like the NBA, the NFL, NHL, English, Premier League soccer, the World cup, those kind of assets that people really care about then yes, they will continue to purchase them every year. Keaton: I don't like to think about the future from a prediction standpoint because people get really dreamy when you start doing that. Mark Cuban is totally on top of this, accepting dogecoin and just like getting on it. The NFT projects are in the Facebook apps phase, right? It might all disappear. I don't think it will, but it might have. And Facebook apps, I said disappeared. The first phase of Facebook apps was. The app is in its third phase of development. It's just cyclical, but nobody knows what the sequence is or what's going to happen next, but tickets and access hit those three vectors, right. "It's hard to see how some of these cases are kind of obvious, but some of the use cases are sort of unimaginable," he says. "Why not turn your assets into NFTs if you can, and then other people can use them and connect to them" "It's a crazy idea, but it'll. happen. Some form of that. Kind of, like, revisiting the past, right? Bringing it back, having events related to the fact that there was an event and something epic happened" "It's an enabling technology. That's what it boils down to. Up to now, we have to rely on other people to be able to prove things right," he says. "And so it's like, why. Why do people have my records?" If I actually painted a painting right now and then I sold it to somebody else, that's the only time I can really make any money from it. and I can then access it whenever I want to. And then I can make money from selling it to someone else as well. Mubs: I've made more money in secondary sales than I made from the initial sales of the NFTs in the first place. You don't have to be a member of SAG and all of those kind of things and then go act in a big Hollywood movie to be able to get that residual income anymore. Anybody can do that now. There's a lot of advantages to turning those digital items into NFTs. You sort of unlock a bunch of functionality that you don't have to code manually because the blockchain has that functionality embedded. And plus, that stuff will outlive your company. The items you put on the blockchain as NFTs are portable because the blockchain is publicly accessible. You don't have to build some sort of proprietary API to make that happen. And that's super cool because it means you don't need to build a marketplace and hope people use it. NFTs are programmable and so you can say, hey, I want a percentage of every sale in perpetuity. With real world items, you sell an item once you get the money and that's it. You can't do that with physical goods. The first version of the web in the nineties was about finding information. Today, NFTs have all these advantages over siloed digital goods. And I think there's just kind of this trend with the web. It's increasingly about money. Early users of crypto projects are rewarded in tokens. These tokens are worth money, similar to people buying nfts that often become worth money. And that turns them into evangelists, because they see an avenue for them to make a lot of money. "The marketing they do is just not traditional marketing. It's community marketing. So it's in their discords. And I mean, like, as many as I could find. He's wrong, though. Like, the way they're doing marketing is community marketing" The only time that I saw such a tight feedback loop, whether it's NFTs or whatever, was clubhouse. that is not to prove him right or wrong. It doesn't matter. But to say that the marketing that has to happen on these things is so aligned with the customer, it's insane. Twitter is the realization of that marketing, which is essentially the channel, right? So it's almost like discord is the medium. And there's just a loop there. And then the substance is the cryptocurrency, the NFT project or whatever, and you're just playing with that. And that's the model. The NFT has created a decentralized, autonomous organization, which is essentially a governance model in this space. And the whole idea of that is we're voting by committee. There might even be, if you want to go crazy with this, like sports teams that are just Dax. In the new web three way of thinking, this sort of marketing, the community is the marketing kind of at that point. And still there's so much speed and so much audience to grab that it is relatively easy if you have a decent idea. In the old web two world, companies needed to advertise to get people to go spend on their website. In the NFT world, people promote it because it's in their best interest to promote an asset that they own. People are funding their enterprises through an NFT sale. People aren't going to venture capital to go raise money so they can build a video game. So it's changing who owns it. It's not some venture capital in Silicon Valley or LA or something who kind of owns the sort of rights to this thing. It's changing who owns what we're going to do for the next five or ten, 2000 years, right? It's finally going to break the monopoly of. There's like a handful of companies that own all the media. All the video games that we play are now going to be controlled by the people actually play them, which I think is really amazing. I'm interested in the whole DeFi space because it changes. The financial models of the world are going to change. Whether it's an NFT or a DeFi project or you do something like an ICO at some point or ever. In a future DeFi world, people can stake their ethereum and their bitcoin with us, and we can use that as funds that we can lend out. That is going to give us lots of money. There will be regulations from the SEC and the Federal Reserve and all those kind of things in terms of what's allowed and what's not allowed. At some point, all those things will be resolved. Here's what I would like to see with NFTs in particular. From 100,000 higher, someone raises 500k from founder Path, right? I want you guys to issue them an NFT that says they're part of the 500k club and just put that in their crypto wallet. You don't even care if they're gonna use that for. They just have representation that they did that. And then on indie hackers, I want to be able to like, look at someone's wallet when they join and just show a little badge on their product. I would love to just see a world where almost everything is represented as an NFT. That tells me something about the identity of the people who come to my website because they're bringing all of that data with them, rather than that data being locked away. If you could get from somewhere nft for each one of those skills that you had for all the places that you work. would love it if that was on the public chain. It takes time to kind of, because those are old, established industries and technologies. It's going to take time for them to wake up to what the new reality is. Google is working on a security tool for file storage. Heaton: It helps people understand, like, all the documents that exist in their Google workspace. He says it's designed to prevent leaks and stuff. In terms of this question you have, I'm deep in this and I'm not doing anything with it in my business, just to be clear. There's a couple things I've seen that are like, oh, interesting. And this is what I hear from founders today, because they think crypto is like an add on. "I'm happy to be proven wrong. If you have something good that anyone, any SaaS business can do, please bring it," he says. "I'm in all the world. And again, if anyone would tell you if there was something, it would be me" If there's an experience where the wallet can be authenticated and you could do something as a result of that in your SaaS app, depending on what it is. Probably more consumer use cases today. Now, if you're really early or you have time, resources and you want to think about this, think about what exists on the blockchain. The biggest utility right now around that, believe it or not, is taxes. I want to connect them for taxes. That's the key. Because like that's a problem. It's a big paid, it's still not solved. SaaS founders have something at scale, like product market fit, and I'm going after it. Mubs, though, it's kind of in the middle where he's got something and he's trying to figure out how to fund it. Simple idea with the community is people can tip each other with crypto somehow. Is does someone already have a wallet or not? Do they have they already jumped through those hoops? And if they haven't, is it your job to train them? Do you want them to? MFT is the. service that powers all those dot eta domains that you see on Twitter. Any member who's active enough can get an invite, instant invite somebody else. This is like sort of very a web 2.0 way of doing it. The token drop was the only NFT. They have points, right? Or not points, but up votes. You can come up with a credibility ranking model and based on what their votes and all that is, you could drop a certain number of tokens. The concept is called social tokens. If you bought it early enough, you can claim them. They stopped at a certain date. So if it was after that date, you don't get any. The power of money. Cortlandt: What next? You've said buy crypto, but what next? Is there a particular website they should trust? Where do you go if you want to put in this hundred hours of learning that Gary Vee mentioned? Coinbase or Robinhood is safe, good personal use, really good stuff. If you're worried about the money you're putting in, don't put a lot of money in there. YouTube has been like, probably one of the easiest ways. Gary V. Stern: Find a buddy. If you see me on Twitter. Come on, come on. Much as you might think he's crazy, I do think he'm crazy in a lot of ways, but he's trustworthy. You have to look for the people who've built up a following, who have horrified maybe as well. There unfortunately isn't one good place to go. If there was, I think they'd be making a lot of money right now. There is still a massive opportunity to sell picks and shovels and all the other things that go into this space with smart contracts. There's lots of tooling and things that need to be built if you're looking for an idea to work on right now. I think there's lots of opportunities there without even exposing yourself to the risk of which coin am I supposed to buy? Just go build your SaaS for the people in the space. One thing that you can probably have faith in is that there's going to be a lot of crypto nuts who love crypto, who want to build stuff. And so if you build tools for them, like, they're not going anywhere. I'm on Twitter. I'm on founderpath.com and you can find me on Twitter and all the usual social media places at habashsharikbal.com. All right, thanks much for me.